---
layout: exam
num: e01
ready: true
desc: "Midterm Exam"
exam_date: 2016-10-18 12:30:00.00-7
---

<ol>



<li class="page-break-before" markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:1em;" >

(10 pts) On the [handout](handout) there is some code.    Your job: figure out after which line of main() each of the following objects is eligible for garbage collection. 

If an object is still not eligible for garbage collection when the last line of main is reached, write "never".   Each answer should be a line number, or the word never.

<style>
 .fill-in-blanks-smaller table {
   width: 60%;
 }
 .fill-in-blanks-smaller table * td {
    margin: 0.5em 0.5em 0.5em 0.5em;
    padding: 0.5em 0.5em 0.5em 0.5em;
 }
</style>

<div class="fill-in-blanks-smaller" markdown="1">

| Object         | Fill in line  here |
|----------------|--------------------|
| (a) `Fido`     |                    |
| (b) `Princess` |                    |
| (c) `Rover`    |                    |
| (d) `Snoopy`   |                    |
| (e) `Spot`     |                    |


</div>

</li>

<li  markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:20em;" markdown="1"> (5 pts) On
the [handout](handout){:data-ajax="false} you got for this exam, there
is a `Dog` class.  The `Dog` class, as written, lacks an overridden
`toString` method.

Write the code for an overridden `toString` method the returns the Dog's name.


</li>


<li class="page-break-before"  style="margin-bottom:25em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) 
Assume that in a given program, there might be a variable `names` 
that is of type `ArrayList<String>`, and contains
an unknown number of dog names.  For example, it might contain `Fido`, `Ralph`, and
`Snoopy`.

Write a static method that we could add to the `Dog` class that takes
such a variable as its parameter, and returns an `ArrayList<Dog>` containing
`Dog` object with precisely those names.

Hint: Be very careful about the difference between how `add` and `set` operate on 
`ArrayList` objects.

</li> 



<li   markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;"> (10 pts) Suppose some constructor method is declared
in its Javadoc to be "known to throw" some kind of checked exception&mdash;for example,

```java
public FileReader(File file)
           throws FileNotFoundException
```

And you are writing a line of code such as this inside some method.

```java
   BufferedReader br = new BufferedReader(new FileReader(new File("file.txt")));
```

Suppose your method is:

```
   public static void foo() { ... }
```

When you see that the javadoc says `throws FileNotFoundException` 
and you lookup and discover that `FileNotFoundException` is a checked exception, as programmer, you now have two choices.   Briefly explain the two choices.

</li>


<li class="page-break-before" markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:20em;">
(5 pts) We are using a third-party library called JUnit in this course. If you were asked at a job interview to briefly describe the purpose of `JUnit`,
what would you say?  

Include <em>enough detail</em>
in your answer so that the interview knows that you are technically sharp, and  they should hire you.   Do not include so much extra detail that the interviewer finds you tedious and annoying, and decides you would be  painful to work with, and chooses to not hire you.
</li>


<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:1em;">
(5 pts) Same question, but this time `ant` and the `build.xml` file.

If you were asked at a job interview to briefly describe the purpose
of `ant` and the <s><tt style="color:red">buidl.xml</tt></s><tt style="color:green">build.xml</tt> file,
what would you say?  Same comment as above about the "level of
detail".

</li>

<li class="page-break-before" markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:1em;" markdown="1"> On the
[handout](handout){:data-ajax="false} you got for this exam, there is
a `Dog` class.  The `Dog` class, as written, lacks an overridden
`.equals` method.

Yet, it is still possible to invoke `.equals()` on Dog objects.

Briefly, but preicsely, answer these questions.

<ol>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:12em;" markdown="1"> 

(5 pts) Write two lines of code that declare two variables `a` and `b`, each of which 
is a Dog reference, and initialize both to separate Dog objects with the name `Alice`.

</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:12em;" markdown="1"> 
 (5 pts) Write a few lines of java that compare the objects referred to by `a` and `b` using the `.equals` method, and then print "EQUAL" on the standard output stream if the method returns true.

</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:14em;" markdown="1"> 

(10 pts) Briefly <strong style="color:green;">explain</strong> how the `.equals()` method invoked in this case (with no overloaded `.equals` method in `Dog`) determines whether to return `true` or `false`, *both* in this specific case, *and* in general. (Both parts needed for full credit).

</li>

<li  markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:2em;"> (5 pts) Continuing with the `Dog` class: if/when
you override the `.equals()` method for a class, it is considered a 
"Java best practice" to always override at least one other method&mdash;

In below, write the "signature" for that method, i.e. the return type, name of method, and
the parameters it takes if any (the same way it appears in Javadoc, for example.)

Hint: if you are drawing a blank, check the method list for
`java.util.ArrayList<E>`, because its on the list.   That turns this into a "multiple choice question, albeit one with 42 choices.

</li>

</ol>
</li>

<li class="page-break-before" markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:30em;">  (10 pts) Continuing with the `Dog` class
from the handout: [handout](handout){:data-ajax="false}

In the space below, please write a properly written .equals() method for Dog.

The reverse side of the `ArrayList` handout has some reminders about a properly
written `.equals()` method.


</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:10em;">  (10 pts) Continuing with the `Dog` class
from the handout: [handout](handout){:data-ajax="false}

In the space below, please write the full code for the other method you need to override when ever you override .equals().  (Hint: consider that java.lang.String already has this method.)

</li>



<li class="page-break-before" markdown="1" >

(10 pts) For each of the following indicate if the line of code
involves auto-boxing, and/or auto-unboxing.  If a line of code
involves both, check both boxes.  If it involves neither, check
neither box.  ASSUME THAT ALL THE LINES OF CODE ARE IN THE SAME `main`
METHOD, CONSECUTIVELY.

<p class="finePrint">(Grading: -2 for each incorrect answer, but no more than -10 total.)</p>

<table class="boxingTable">

<tr>
 <th width="60%">Code</th>
 <th width="10%">auto-boxing</th>
 <th width="10%">auto-unboxing</th>
</tr>

<tr>
<td markdown="1">
`ArrayList<Integer> mylist = new ArrayList<Integer>();`
</td>
<td class="checkbox">&square;</td><td class="checkbox">&square;</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td markdown="1">
`mylist.add(9);`
</td>
<td class="checkbox">&square;</td><td class="checkbox">&square;</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td markdown="1">
`mylist.add(new Integer(3));`
</td>
<td class="checkbox">&square;</td><td class="checkbox">&square;</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td markdown="1">
`mylist.add(mylist.get(0) + 1);`
</td>
<td class="checkbox">&square;</td><td class="checkbox">&square;</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td markdown="1">
`int x = mylist.get(0);`
</td>
<td class="checkbox">&square;</td><td class="checkbox">&square;</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td markdown="1">
`Integer y = mylist.get(1);`
</td>
<td class="checkbox">&square;</td><td class="checkbox">&square;</td>
</tr>

</table>

</li>



</ol>

