---
layout: exam
num: e02
ready: true
desc: "Midterm Exam"
exam_date: 2016-11-16 12:30:00.00-7
---

<ol>

<li markdown="1" class="page-break-before"> (Problem 12 from CS56 W12
Midterm 2) For this question, you need the additional
[handout](handout) with code for these files: `Book.java`,
`Product.java`, `Shippable.java`, `Song.java`.

You may assume that all of the code for Question 2 on the  [handout](handout) compiles—I've checked that this is true. Now consider the code for the `Q2` class below, which does contain some errors, and as a result, will NOT compile.

Please do these things with this "broken" code for the Q2 class:

<ol>
<li markdown="1">

(10 pts) Several lines need to be eliminated from this file in order to make it compile. Find the lines that are bogus, and draw a line through each of them in the code listing above.
Hint: By "several", I mean more than 2, and fewer than 10. Start by determining which, if any, of the constructors are bogus. Then, eliminate any lines that refer to the variables created on those lines. Finally, check all of the remaining method calls.

You will lose two points each time you striking a line that is not bogus, and you will lose two points for failing to strike any line that IS bogus. So, choose wisely.

```java
/* 1*/	public class Q2 {
/* 2*/	  public static void main (String [] args) {
/* 3*/	    
/* 4*/      Book gp = new Book("Pratchett","Going Postal",799,0.15);
/* 5*/      Song br = new Song("Lady Gaga","Bad Romance");
/* 6*/      Product slts = new Song("Nirvana","Smells Like Teen Spirit",79);
/* 7*/      Shippable hp = new Book("Rowling","Harry Potter & the Polymorphic Polyp",652,1.5);
/* 8*/      Shippable ttc = new Shippable("Dickens","Tale of Two Cities",999,1.5);
/* 9*/ 					       
/*10*/      System.out.println("a:" + gp.getTitle());
/*11*/      System.out.println("b:" + br.getArtist());
/*12*/      System.out.println("c:" + br.getPrice());
/*13*/      System.out.println("d:" + slts.getPrice());
/*14*/      System.out.println("e:" + slts.getTitle());
/*15*/      System.out.println("f:" + hp.getPrice());
/*16*/      System.out.println("g:" + hp.getWeight());
/*17*/      System.out.println("h:" + hp.getTitle());
/*18*/      System.out.println("i:" + ttc.getPrice());
/*19*/      System.out.println("j:" + ttc.getPrice());
/*20*/ 
/*21*/    } // main method
/*22*/ } // class Q2

```

</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:10em;">

(10 pts) After striking through the bogus lines, the remaining code should compile and run. So, indicate what the output will be (if any) below. Be precise. If there will no output, write "no output".

</li>

</ol>

</li>
 




<li markdown="1" class="page-break-before" style="margin-bottom:8em;">
Java has two keywords that differ in only a single letter: `throw` and
`throws`.  Using the checked exception `java.io.FileNotFound` as an example,
provide an short example of how each of these keywords might be used.

Provide both at least one line of java code that contains the keyword
`throw` or `throws`, as appropriate, referencing `IOException`, and
then a brief explanation of the context of that line of Java
code, and what either `throw` or `throws` means in that context. 

You *may* add additional lines of Java code either above and/or
below that line of code if they help to provide additional
context&mdash;but that is *optional*, not required.  What I'm looking for
is the *shortest* code example that clearly illustrates your explanation
of the proper use of the two keywords.

<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:12em;">(3 pts) Code example for `throw`
</li>
<li style="margin-bottom:12em;">(3 pts) Explanation of code example for `throw`
</li>
<li style="margin-bottom:12em;">(3 pts) Code example for `throws`
</li>
<li style="margin-bottom:12em;">(3 pts) Explanation of code example for `throws`
</li>
<li style="margin-bottom:1em;">(3 pts) Three additional points will be awarded by
the grader based on whether the entire explanation above, taken as a whole,
clearly illustrates an overall understanding of checked exceptions in Java and
the difference between `throw` and `throws`.  

If your explanation above
already makes that clear, you don't need to add anything here.    If you feel
that an additional clarifying remark is needed, write at most one or two sentences.
</li>

</ol>

</li>




</ol>

