---
num: "h18"
desc: "Perkovic Chapter 2-7 (Review)"
ready: false
assigned: 2017-09-07 11:00:00.00-7:00
due: 2017-09-13 15:00:00.00-7:00
layout: hwk
---



Please review the material from Perkovic, Chapters 2-7 (this is review for the final exam.) Then complete these problems.


<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts_shorter.html %}



<li style="margin-bottom:0em;" markdown="1"> Use this information to answer the questions which follow:

* variable `pt` is a tuple that represents the $$x$$ and $$y$$ coordinates of a point in the Cartesian coordinate system as $$(x, y)$$. 
* variable `rect` is a list that represents a rectangle as `[(x, y), width, height]`.  The elements of the list from left to right are 
   * a tuple containing the coordinates of the top left corner of the rectangle
   * the width of the rectangle
   * the height of the rectangle. 

<ol>

<li style="margin-bottom:10em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) 
Write the definition of a Python function `isPointInRect` that takes two parameters, `pt` and `rect` and checks if the point `pt` lies within the boundaries of the rectangle `rect`.  Your code should return the boolean value `True` or `False`.
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;" markdown="1"> Assume that `rect1` is a global variable with the value  `[(-50, 100), 20, 100]`.
Write five test cases for `isPointRect` in the style of `pytest`, using the values in the table below as your values for the `pt` parameter.   You may assume that `rect1` is defined and available for you to use in your test cases.

<ul>
<li style="margin-bottom:4em;" markdown="1"> (4 pts) `(0,0)`
</li>
<li style="margin-bottom:4em;" markdown="1"> (4 pts) `(-40,150)`
</li>
<li style="margin-bottom:4em;" markdown="1"> (4 pts) `(-40,50)`
</li>
<li style="margin-bottom:4em;" markdown="1"> (4 pts) `(0,10)`
</li>
<li style="margin-bottom:4em;" markdown="1"> (4 pts) `(-10,0)`
</li>
</ul>

</li>
</ol>
 
</li>



<li markdown="1"> Sections 2.2 and 2.3 describe strings, lists and tuples in Python, highlighting the similarities and differences between them. One key difference is that lists are mutable while strings and tuples are not. As a result there are certain operations that are valid on lists but not on strings or tuples. Section 2.4 introduced 'constructors' and how the can be used to explicitly instantiate objects of any type. This exercise checks your understanding of all these concepts.

Assuming the following assignment statements have been entered at the Python prompt:

```python
petStr = str("goldfish")
petTup = tuple("cat")
petLst = list("turtle")
petLst.sort()
petLst.append(petStr)

```

What would be the result of entering the following at
the Python interactive shell prompt? If any of the commands is invalid, write the exact error type that is displayed by the Python shell.

(Note: You are encouraged to check your answers at the Python prompt
before turning in your work, but try this on paper first, just by
reading the text and trying to predict what will happen.  Then try
typing in the results at the Python prompt.  Change your answers if
they were mistaken, but even more important, try to figure out why you
were incorrect.)

Be very precise.  Note that `True` is not the same in Python as `true`; upper
vs. lower case matters.  You will not get full credit for answers that are not
precisely correct. 

<style>
div.bigger table * td { padding: 0.7em 3pt 0.7em 3pt; }
span.wide { padding: 0pt 4em 0pt 4em; }
</style>

<div class="bigger" markdown="1">

| Points  | Expression  | <span class="wide">Result</span> | Points  | Expression  | <span class="wide">Result</span> |
|---------|-------------|--------|---------|-------------|--------|
| (4 pts) | `len(petLst)` |        | (4 pts) | `petStr.sort()`     |        |
| (4 pts) | `min(petStr)`    |        | (4 pts) | `petLst.count('l') `|        |
| (4 pts) | `petTup*2`    |        | (4 pts) | `petTup[-1] ='r'` |        |
| (4 pts) | `'g' in petLst`    |        | (4 pts) | `petLst[-3] in petTup`  |        |
| (4 pts) | `'g' in petStr`    |        | (4 pts) | `min(petStr.upper())`    |        |


</div>
<div class="pagebreak"></div>
</li>

</li>

</ol>


