---
num: "h00"
desc: "Perkovic Ch1"
ready: false
assigned: 2017-08-08 09:30:00.00-7:00
due: 2017-08-09 09:30:00.00-7:00
---

<b>READING ASSIGNMENT</b>

Please read Chapter 1 in Perkovic.  Then complete these problems.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li>Section 1.2 describes Computer Systems in general.

<ol>

<li>According to our author, an Operating System (e.g. Windows, MacOS, Linux) has two primary
functions.  What are these? 

<ul>
<li>(5 pts) </li>

<li>(5 pts) </li>


</li>

<li>(10 pts) Why did computer scientists create programming languages such as Python, C, C++, Java, etc.? </li>

<li>(10 pts) The author makes a distinction between the "core set" of features in a programming language, and those
that are put into "software libraries".   What are two examples of features that end up in libraries rather than in the
core language?</li>

<li>(10 pts) What is the advantage of putting those features into libraries rather than into the core?</li>

<li>(10 pts) APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) are important in programming&mdash;our author gives a nice clear explanation of what an API is.   What is that explanation?</li>

</ol>

<div class="pagebreak">

</div>

</li>


<li>Section 1.3 describes the Python programming language.

<ol>
<li>(10 pts) What is the interactive shell used for? </li>
<li>(10 pts) What does a Python program consist of?</li>
</ol>

</li>

<li><p>Section 1.4 contains a description of a sample problem that the author uses to illustrate "computational thinking".  The author notes that in applying computational thinking to a problem, one of the steps we take is to decide which
details of the problem are important, and which are not.  </p>

<ol> 
<li>(10 pts) Give two examples of details about the problem statement that, according to the author's discussion, are not relevant, and should be ignored.
</li>
<li>(10 pts) Given two examples of details that are definitely relevant, and that we need to pay attention to in coming up with a solution.
</li>
</ol>

</li>





</ol>
