---
num: "h04"
desc: "Perkovic 3.1-3.2 (Programs, if/else, for)"
ready: false
assigned: 2017-08-09 09:30:00.00-7:00
due: 2017-08-16 09:30:00.00-7:00
---

<b>READING ASSIGNMENT</b>

Please read {{page.desc}}.  Then complete these problems.


<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}


<li style="margin-bottom: 4em;" markdown="1"> (5 pts) Section 3.1 discusses a feature of IDLE called "restarting the shell".   What does the book say happens when you restart the shell?
</li>


<li style="margin-bottom: 4em;" markdown="1">
(10 pts) Section 3.1 also discusses the `input()` function,
which is used to get input from the user.   It indicates that the result
of the `input()` function always comes back as a particular data type,
no matter what the user types in.   What is this data type?

<div class="pagebreak">
</div>

</li>

<li markdown="1"> (10 pts) On p. 56-57, the textbook suggests using the `eval()` function
to convert the result of `input()` from the user if it going to be used
as something other than a string (e.g. as a number, list, etc.)

THIS IS A POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS HABIT TO GET INTO.  DON'T DO IT.

(We'll discuss this in more detail in lecture, but the short version
is: this is the kind of habit that leaves security vulnerabilities
open for hackers.    There isn't any real danger in an intro course,
because the software you write won't be run by anyone except you and your
TA, but in general, this is VERY bad habit to get into.)

So what can we do instead?  Well, you actually already saw one option&mdash;a technique that was discussed in Section 2.4.   Suppose we have this Python
statement:

```
ageAsString = input('Please enter your age in years')
```

Using techniques from Section 2.4, but NOT using `eval`, what line
of Python code can you write to convert
the value `ageAsString` into an `int` value?

</li>

<li markdown="1"> (20 pts) Read about the `if` and `else` statements in Section 3.2, including what happens when the various programs in Section 3.2 are run.

(If you want to run them yourself to see what happens, I strongly encourage that!  And: it is ok to type them in and run them, even including the `eval` function calls; I don't want to scare you too much about that. The  `eval` function is only risky when someone you don't trust is putting input into your code, e.g. when you are making a app that the general public will use.)

Once you think you understand how `if` and `else` works, consider this code, which is incomplete.   Add the code that is needed so that if the user puts in something other than `CA` for the state, the code will print "Out of State Tuition".   Be sure to indent your code properly, and include all needed punctuation.

```
homeState = input("Please enter your state")

if homeState=="CA":
  print("In State Tuition")







```


</li>

<li> (10 pts) TODO </li>

</ol>

