---
num: "h13"
desc: "The Decorator Pattern (HFDP 3)"
ready: false
assigned: 2016-10-24 12:30:00.00-7:00
due: 2016-10-31 12:30:00.00-7:00
---

This homework concerns <span data-hfdp="3">HFDP Chapter 3</span>.
Please read that chapter, and then answer these questions.

<ol>

{% include hwk_li_name_10pts.html %}

<li style="margin-bottom:5em;">

In Chapter 3, the Open/Closed principle is presented in the context of
the Decorator pattern.  
<ol>
<li> (10 pts) Fill in the two blanks to result in the
statement of this principle.

<p style="margin-top:2em; font-size: 120%;">
Open for ______________________________________  closed for __________________________________.
</p>
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:12em;">(10 pts) Ok, that was the easy part; you just had to find the words in the chapter.  Now, the harder part: explain what this means in your own words.  "In your own words" means, don't just write down words for the book.   Read the book, then put the book down, and write what you've learned as if you were explaining it to someone.

</li>
</ol>


</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:1em;"> (10 pts) (You may want to skim through HFJ Chapter 14 before answering this question.) The standard Java library classes that
implement input and output streams use the Decorator pattern.  Describe how the Decorator pattern is used here, and what benefits it provides. 
<div class="pagebreak"></div>
</li>



<li style="margin-bottom:1em;"> The decorator pattern features both
composition and inheritance. 

<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:12em;"> (10 pts) How is composition used in the Decorator pattern?

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:12em;"> (10 pts) How is inheritance used in
the Decorator pattern?  (Note: there is a particular purpose for which
inheritance is used in the Decorator pattern.   The book describes this very specifically.)
</li>

</ol>

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts) The chapter has a section that describes some of the problems that can occur with decorators.   One of those is when "client code" (which means code that calls the classes we are designing and implementing) relies on specific types.     This might be code that looks for specific types of `Beverage`, for example, such as `HouseBlend`, `DarkRoast`.  For example, inside a for loop the processes every element of an  `ArrayList<Beverage>  drinks`, such as `for (Beverage b: drinks)` it might say something like `if (b instanceof DarkRoast)`.

Explain why code such as this might break when we are using the Decorator pattern.

</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:8em;"> (10 pts) In the "interview" called "Confessions of a Decorator", the decorator pattern character describes a way of thinking about  the Java I/O system and all of the various little classes used for input.   The character indicates a way of thinking about these in terms of the decorator pattern that makes them easier to understand.  Describe this way of thinking.
TBD
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:12em;"> (10 pts)  Provide a *short* explanation (1-2) sentences that captures the main idea of the decorator pattern, one that you might commit to memory and whip out at a job interview or exam question.  (Keep it *short*&mdash;the idea is that you'd expand on this description if you were asked for details.)
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:12em;" markdown="1"> (10 pts)  Suppose you were called upon to implement decorator classes for a `Student` class with methods `public String getName()`, `public int getPerm()`.  Assume that there are already subclasses of `Student` called `GradStudent` and `UndergradStudent`, and those are so embedded in the code that it isn't feasible to change those.     

The main thing you want to be able to provide through your decorator classses is a way to implement a method called `public String getDescription()` that could get a description of the student with as many details as the various decorators provided.    Decorators might be used to add details to the description of the student, such as a major, college, year in school, transfer student, international student, research project title, etc.

Write the code for a base class `StudentDecorator` that your various decorators (e.g. `MajorStudentDecorator`, `CollegeStudentDecorator`, will inherit from.)

</li>


</ol>

<div style="display:none">
http://UCSB-CS56-F16.github.io/hwk/h13
</div>




