---
layout: exam
num: e03
ready: true
desc: "Midterm Exam"
exam_date: 2016-12-08 12:00:00.00-8
---

<ol>



<li markdown="1" >

(6 pts) For each of the following indicate if the line of code
involves auto-boxing, and/or auto-unboxing.  If a line of code
involves both, check both boxes.  If it involves neither, check
neither box.  ASSUME THAT ALL THE LINES OF CODE ARE IN THE SAME `main`
METHOD, CONSECUTIVELY.

<p class="finePrint">(Grading: -1 for each incorrect answer, but no more than -6 total.)</p>

<table class="boxingTable">

<tr>
 <th width="60%">Code</th>
 <th width="10%">auto-boxing</th>
 <th width="10%">auto-unboxing</th>
</tr>

<tr>
<td markdown="1">
`ArrayList<Integer> mylist = new ArrayList<Integer>();`
</td>
<td class="checkbox">&square;</td><td class="checkbox">&square;</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td markdown="1">
`mylist.add(new Integer(4));`
</td>
<td class="checkbox">&square;</td><td class="checkbox">&square;</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td markdown="1">
`int x = mylist.get(0) + 1;`
</td>
<td class="checkbox">&square;</td><td class="checkbox">&square;</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td markdown="1">
`mylist.add(new Integer(x));`
</td>
<td class="checkbox">&square;</td><td class="checkbox">&square;</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td markdown="1">
`int x = mylist.get(1);`
</td>
<td class="checkbox">&square;</td><td class="checkbox">&square;</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td markdown="1">
`Integer y = mylist.get(new Integer(0));`
</td>
<td class="checkbox">&square;</td><td class="checkbox">&square;</td>
</tr>

</table>

</li>

<li class="page-break-before" markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:20em;"> We are using a third-party library called JUnit in this course. If you were asked at a job interview to briefly describe <em>both</em> the <em>purpose of `JUnit`,</em> and <em>how it is used</em> what would you say?  

Include <em>enough detail</em>
in your answer so that the interview knows that you are technically sharp, and  they should hire you.   Do not include so much extra detail that the interviewer finds you tedious and annoying, and decides you would be  painful to work with, and chooses to not hire you.

<ol>
<li style="margin-bottom:20em;"> (5 pts) Purpose of JUnit? (Why would someone use JUnit?  What are the benefits?)
</li>

<li style="margin-bottom:20em;"> (5 pts) How it is used? (What do you do in order to use JUnit, including at least some mention of setup, workflow and the 
code you write?)

</li>


</ol>

</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:1em;">

<style>
 .fill-in-blanks-smaller table {
   width: 60%;
 }
 .fill-in-blanks-smaller table * td {
    margin: 0.5em 0.5em 0.5em 0.5em;
    padding: 0.5em 0.5em 0.5em 0.5em;
 }
</style>

<div style="float:right; width: 40%;" class="fill-in-blanks-smaller" markdown="1">

| Object         | Line of code |
|----------------|--------------|
| (a) `Fido`     |              |
| (b) `Princess` |              |
| (c) `Rover`    |              |
| (d) `Snoopy`   |              |
| (e) `Spot`     |              |

</div>

<div style="width:50%;" markdown="1">
(5 pts) On the [handout](handout) there is some code.    Your job: figure out after which line of main() each of the following objects is eligible for garbage collection. 

If an object is still not eligible for garbage collection when the last line of main is reached, write "never".   Each answer should be a line number, or the word never.
</div>


</li>


<li markdown="1" class="page-break-before"> For this question, you need the additional
[handout](handout) with code for these files: `Book.java`,
`Product.java`, `Shippable.java`, `Song.java`.   These are classes used by the
startup E-Commerce company "Amazany.com" 

You may assume that all of the code for these files on the [handout](handout) compiles—I've checked that this is true. Now consider the code for the `Amazany` class.

Please do these things with this "broken" code for the `Amazany` class:

<ol>
<li markdown="1">

(4 pts) Several lines need to be eliminated from this file in order to make it compile. Find the lines that are bogus, and draw a line through each of them in the code listing above.
Hint: By "several", I mean more than 2, and fewer than 10. Start by determining which, if any, of the constructors are bogus. Then, eliminate any lines that refer to the variables created on those lines. Finally, check all of the remaining method calls.

You will lose one point each time you striking a line that is not bogus, and you will lose one point for failing to strike any line that IS bogus. So, choose wisely.

{% highlight java linenos %}
public class Amazany {
  public static void main (String [] args) {    
    Shippable lf = new Song("Queen Latifah","Ladies First");
    Shippable rts = new Shippable("Julia Alvarez","Return To Sender",949,0.15);
    Product cstf = new Song("Justin Timberlake","Can't Stop The Feeling",79);
    Shippable fl = new Song("Drake","Fake Love");
    Product inf = new Book("Dan Brown","Inferno",999,1.5);
    Book tbt = new Book("Gwen Ifill","The Breakthrough",652,1.5);
    
    System.out.println("a:" + lf.getArtist());
    System.out.println("b:" + rts.getPrice());
    System.out.println("c:" + cstf.getTitle());
    System.out.println("d:" + fl.getWeight());
    System.out.println("e:" + inf.getArtist());
    System.out.println("f:" + tbt.getTitle());
    System.out.println("g:" + lf.getPrice());
    System.out.println("h:" + rts.getWeight());
    System.out.println("i:" + cstf.getPrice());
    System.out.println("j:" + fl.getTitle());    
  } // main method
} // class Amazany
{% endhighlight %}

</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:10em;">

(4 pts) After striking through the bogus lines, the remaining code should compile and run. So, indicate what the output will be (if any) below. Be precise. If there will no output, write "no output".

You will lose one point for each line of either missing, or incorrect output. A line must be perfect to be considered correct.   So be precise.

</li>

</ol>

</li>


<li class="page-break-before" markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:1em;" markdown="1"> On the
[handout](handout){:data-ajax="false} you got for this exam, there is
a `Book` class.  The `Book` class, as written, lacks an overridden
`.equals` method.

Yet, it is still possible to invoke `.equals()` on Book objects.

Briefly, but preicsely, answer these questions.

<ol>


<li  markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:20em;" markdown="1"> (5 pts)  The `Book` class, as written, lacks an overridden
`toString` method.

Write the code for an overridden `toString` method the returns the title of the
book.

</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:14em;" markdown="1">  (5 pts) When overriding methods such as `.toString`, `.equals` or `.hashCode`, it is considered good practice to use the annotation `@Override`.

(Hint: If you didn't include `@Override` in your answer to the previous question, go back and put it there now.)


As we discussed in lecture, the annotation `@Override` helps the compiler to signal errors the programmer could make that might otherwise not be noticed at compile time.  

Assuming the programmers intention is to override the `toString` method inherited from `java.lang.Object`, give a <em>specific</em> example of a mistake the programmer might make that would NOT be flagged by the compiler unless the programmer included the `@Override` annotation.  

By <em>specific</em> example, I mean, write the incorrect code.
</li>


</ol>
</li>

<li class="page-break-before" markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:30em;">  (5 pts) Continuing with the `Book` class
from the handout: [handout](handout){:data-ajax="false}


<ol>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;" markdown="1"> 

(5 pts) Write two lines of code that declare two variables `a` and `b`, each of which 
is a `Book` reference, and initialize both to separate Book objects with identical values for all the attributes of a `Book`.



</li>

<li markdown="1">

<div style="float:right; padding:2em; margin-left:4em; margin-right:1em; width: 14em; border: 3px solid black;"> 

<p><b>Output for part (b)
</b>
</p>
<div style="margin-bottom:10em;">&nbsp;
</div>
</div>

(5 pts)
Assuming `.equals` is not overridden, what would the output of this code be?  Answer in the box at the right hand side.

```java
  if (a==b) {
    System.out.println("W");
  } else {
    System.out.println("X");
  }
  if (a.equals(b)) {
    System.out.println("Y");
  } else {
    System.out.println("Z");
  }
```

</li>


<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:15em;"> (5 pts) Write the code for an overridden `.equals` method for `Book` that compares only the title attribute of Book to determine equality. 

The reverse side of the `ArrayList` handout has some reminders about a properly
written `.equals()` method.

</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:2em;"> (5 pts) Continuing with
the `Book` class: if/when you override the `.equals()` method for a
class, it is considered a "Java best practice" to always override the
`hashCode` method also.  Given the implementation of `.equals` from
the previous problem, write an overridden `hashCode` method for
`Book`.  (As a hint, note that the class `java.lang.String` already has a properly
written built in `hashCode` method.)

</li>

</ol>

</li>

<li markdown="1" class="page-break-before" style="margin-bottom:1em;">  Java provides two types of exception.   One of those is created by extending `java.lang.Exception`, and the other by extending `java.lang.RunTimeException`.

Suppose you were creating a Java application that runs on a smartphone, and reads data from a personal fitness device (e.g. something like a FitBit) using BlueTooth.   Suppose the device is being developed by a lab at UCSB called Gauchofit.

The device sends messages, the first 32 bits of which are always an integer containing the "message type".    At the moment, there are 11 message types defined (values 0 through 10), but more could be defined in the future.

Your job is to create two new exception classes in the package `edu.ucsb.gauchofit`:

* The exception `edu.ucsb.gauchofit.DeviceNotReady` should be thrown any time the software detects that communication can't be estabished with the device, or has been lost.    It is not possible for the programmer to predict when and if this exception will occur.

* The exception `edu.ucsb.gauchofit.UnknownDataType` should be thrown any time a message from the device has a value for the message type that is outside the legal range.   As long as the code is written correctly, and the communications protocols are working as they should, this should never happen; it represents a bug in the software if it does occur.

<ol>
<li markdown="1"  markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;">(4 pts) Apart from any comments, what should the first line of the file DeviceNotReady.java be?
</li>
<li markdown="1"  markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:8em;">(4 pts) Assuming that source code is stored under a directory called `src/`, list the full file name for `DeviceNotReady.java`, including all directories between `src` and `DeviceNotReady.java`, if any.
</li>
<li markdown="1"  style="margin-bottom:8em;">(4 pts) The first line of the class declaration for `DeviceNotReady` will start with `public class` and then continue.

What code will follow those words, up to and concluding with the *open brace* '{' ?  (You do not need to write the entire class.)
</li>
<li markdown="1"  style="margin-bottom:8em;">(4 pts) Same question, but for the class `UnknownDataType`.   What follows `public class` in `UnknownDataType.java`, concluding with the open brace `{`?
</li>
</ol>

</li>





<li class="page-break-before" style="margin-bottom:15em;" markdown="1">

<p>This question, and the one that follows are essay/short answer type
questions, with an emphasis on "<em>short</em> answer".

For this and *all other similar questions on this exam*, answer as if
you were in a *job interview*.  Your answer will be graded on the
basis of whether it would be likely to help you or hurt you in that
context.

Answers gain or lose points based on whether they are accurate,
precise, concise, relevant, and whether they address the specific
question asked.  </p>


(10 pts) Choose ONE (only one) of the following
design patterns:

1. Strategy
2. Observer
3. Decorator
4. Factory


then describe each of the following:

* The specific situation/context in which the pattern is useful
* The relationships between/among classes/interfaces/objects
* The way in which this pattern makes code easier to understand and maintain


(See the note above about keeping essay/short answer questions short and to the point.)

</li>

<li markdown="1" style="margin-bottom:40em;" class="page-break-before"> (10 pts) You have been hired at an internship that is a "try out" for a full time position.   Your team leader tells you:

"One of the reasons we've hired you is that we see you have a lot of
experience with git/github.  We are hoping that you can help bring the
other interns up to speed, since they have less experience with
git/github.  Could you write up a short "cheat sheet" with just the
most essential information about git/github that they need to know?
It should include the commmands they need, as well as some
instructions about when to use each of those commands.  It has to fit
in the space below.  Don't write too small; it needs to be clear and
legible."

In the space below, put your "cheat sheet" for git.  Choose carefully
what to include, as well as what to leave out, since you can't possibly
write everything you know about git/github in the space below.

Don't feel you need to cram the sheet full.   Neatness and legibility are
more important to usefulness than filling in everything you know.  Prioritize.


</li>







</ol>

<div style="clear:both;">
&nbsp;
</div>




