---
layout: exam
num: e03
ready: true
desc: "Lab Final Exam"
exam_date: 2017-09-14 11:00:00.00-7
---

<style>

body {
  font-size: 14px;
}

</style>

Please refer to the general instructions on the [handout](handout) for this exam.

<ol>

<li class="page-break-before" markdown="1"> (25 pts) For `EXAM_lf01`, please submit a file called `lf01.py`.   This file should contain the definition of a Python function called `areaOfTriangle` that takes two parameters, `base` and `height`.  For this problem, you may assume that the parameters are numbers&mdash;you don't have to check their types.

Your function should return the area of a triangle with that base and height.  Recall that the area of a triangle, with base $$ b $$ and height $$ h $$ is given by:

$$
a = \frac{1}{2}bh
$$


</li>


<li  markdown="1"> (25 pts) For `EXAM_lf02`, please submit a file called `lf02.py`.

This file should contain the definition of a Python function called
`perimIsoTri` that takes two parameters, `base` and `height`.
Provided that both base and height are numeric (i.e. `int` or `float`)
the function should return the perimeter of an isoceles triangle with
the base and height passed in.  That formula is given by:

$$
p = b + \sqrt{b^2 + 4h^2} 
$$

However, if either `base` or `height` isn't numeric, then the function should raise a `ValueError`.  As a reminder, the code to do that looks like this (except that you have to fill in the blank in the `if` test with something appropriate):

```
   if __________:
       raise ValueError("base is not a number")
   if __________:
       raise ValueError("height is not a number")
```

You will have to figure out what goes in the `______`.

As a reminder, `math.sqrt(x)` computes the square root of x in Python.
</li>

<li class="page-break-before" markdown="1"> (25 pts) For `EXAM_lf03`, please submit a file called `lf03.py`.

This file should contain the definition of a Python function called `countStrings` that takes one parameter, `alist`. 

If `alist` is of type `list`, the function should return the number of elements in the list that are strings.	If there aren't any strings in the list, that should be zero.

If `alist` is not of type `list`, the function should return the value `False`.

</li>

<li markdown="1"> (25 pts) For `EXAM_lf04`, please submit a file called `lf04.py`.

This file should contain the definition of a Python function called `oddLenStrIndexes` that takes one parameter, `alist`. 

If `alist` is of type `list`, and contains only strings, the function should return a new list, containing only the indexes of the elements in aList that were strings with a odd number of characters in them.

For example, the function should pass the following test cases:

```

def test_oddLenStrIndexes_1():
   assert oddLenStrIndexes(["ox","cat","horse","monkey","dog"])==[1,2,4]

def test_oddLenStrIndexes_2():
   assert oddLenStrIndexes(["red","blue","green","pink"])==[0,2]

def test_oddLenStrIndexes_3():
   assert oddLenStrIndexes(["banana","plum","grape"])==[2]

def test_oddLenStrIndexes_4():
   assert oddLenStrIndexes(["UCLA","UCSB","UCSD"])==[]

def test_oddLenStrIndexes_5():
   assert oddLenStrIndexes([])==[]

```

<b>  &#x261f;&#x261f; IMPORTANT!!!!!  SEE COMMENT BELOW!!! &#x261f;&#x261f;</b>

But if `alist` is not of type `list`, or contains anything at all that is
not a string, the function should return the value `False`.

</li>

</ol>